1.	What is PHP?
PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor, is an open-source server side scripting language that is embedded in HTML.
It's used to manage dynamic content, databases, session tracking or build e-commerce sites.



2. 	What are the common usage of PHP?
- PHP performs system functions, i.e from files on a system it can create, open, read, write and close them.
- PHP can handle forms, gather data from files, save data to a file, thru email you can send data, return data to the user.
- Add, delete, modify elements within your database through PHP
- Access cookies, variables and set cookies
- Restrict users to access some pages of your website
- Encrypt data



3.	 In how many ways you can embed PHP code in a HTML page?
All PHP code must be included inside one of the three special markup tags that are recognised by the PHP parser.

<?php PHP code goes here ?>
<? PHP code goes here ?>
<script language="php">PHP code goes here </script>



4.	Is PHP case sensitive language?
No, PHP is partially case sensitive



5. 	What are the characteristics of PHP variables?
- All variables are denoted with a leading dollar sign "$"
- The value of a variable is the value of its most recent assignment
- Variables are assigned with the = opperator, with the variable on the left side and the expression to be evaluated on the right
- Variables can, but not need, to be declared before assignment
- Variables in PHP do not have intrinsic types (not know if it'll be used to store a number or a string)
- Variables used before they are assigned have default vaues
- PHP does converting types from on to another when neccesary



6.	What are the different types of PHP variables?
- Integers, Doubles, Booleans, NULL, Strings, Arrays, Objects, Resources (Special variables that hold references to resources external to PHP such as database connections).



7.	What are the rules for naming a PHP variable?
- Variable name must begin with a lettern or underscore character
- A variable name can consist of numbers, letters, underscores, but you cannot use characters like "+-%,.&"



8.	How do you define a constant in PHP?
Constants are like variables except that once they are defined they cannot be changed or undefined
A constant is an identifier (name) for a simple value. The value cannot be changed during the script.
You have to use define() function and to retrieve the value of a constant, you have to simply specifying its name.
Unlike with variables, you don't need to have a constant with $



9.	What is the purporse of constant() function?
This function will return the value of the constant. This is useful when you want to retrieve value of a constant, but you don't know its name.

<?php
define("MINSIZE", 50);
echo MINSIZE;
echo constant("MINSIZE"); //same thing as the previous line
?>



10.	What are the differences between PHP constants and variables?
- There is no need to write a $ before a cosntant
- Constants cannot be defined by simple assignment, they may only be defined using the define() function
- Constants my be defined and accessed anywhere without regard to variable scoping rules
- Once the Constants have been set, may not be redefined or undefined



11.	What are PHP magic constants?
PHP provides a large nnumber of predefined constants to any script which it runs know as magic constants



12.	What is the purpose of break and continue statement?
Break terminates the for loop or switch statement and transfers execution to the statement immediately following the loop

Continue causes the loop to skip the remainder of its body and immediately retest its condition prior to reiterating


13.	Explain the syntax for 'foreach' loop
The foreach statement is used to loop through arrays. For each pass the value of the current array element is array to $value and the array pointer is moved one by one and in the next pass next element will be processed

foreach (array as value) {
	code
}


14.	What is a numeric array?
Numeric array (an array with a numeric value). Values are stored and accessed in linear fashion



15.	What is associate array?
Associative array (an array containing one or more arrays and values are accessed using multiple indices).



16.	How will you concatenate two strings in PHP?
$string1 = "Hello World"
$string2 = "1234"
echo $string1." ".$string2;



17.	How do you find the length of a string in PHP?
strlen() is used to find the length of a string
echo strlen("Hello World"); // 6



18.	How will you locate a string withing a string in PHP?
echo strpos("Hello World","World"); // 6



19. 	How will you get the browser's details using PHP?
One of the environment variables set by PHP is HTTP_USER_AGENT which identifies the user's browser and operating system



20.	How will you generate random numbers using PHP?
rand() function is used to generate a random number.
srand() function specifies the seed number as its argument



21.	What is the purpose of $_PHP_SELF variable?
The PHP default variable $_PHP_SELF is used for the PHP script name and when you click "submit" button then same PHP script will be called

22.	How will you redirect a page using PHP?
The PHP header() function supplies raw HTTP headers to the browser and can be used to redirect it to another location.
The redirection script should be at the very top of the page to prevent any other part of the page from loading.
The target is specified at the location:heder as the argument to the header() function.
After calling this function the exit() function can be used to halt parsing of rest of the code



23.	How will you get information sent via get method in PHP?
The PHP provides $_GET associative array to access all the sent information using GET method



24.	How will you get information sent via post method in PHP?
The PHP provides $_POST associative array to access all the sent information using POST method



25.	What is the purpose $_REQUEST variable?
The PHP $_REQUEST variable contains the contants of both $_GET and $_POST, $_COOKIE.
The PHP $_REQUEST variable can be used to get the result from form data sent with both the GET and POST method.



26.	How will you include the content of a PHP file into another PHP file?
There are two PHP functions which can be used to include one PHP file into another PHP file
	include()
	require()

In case of an error, require() generates a fatal error and halt the execution of the script
include() generate a warning but the script will continue the execution



27.	How to open a file in readonly mode, how to read a file?
fopen() is used ton open a file. It requires two arguments stating first the file name and then mode in which to operate
"r" mode opens the file for reading only and places the file pointer at the beginning of the file

Once a file is opened with fopen(), it can be read with a function called fread()



28.	How will you set cookies and get cookies using PHP?
setcookie(name, value, expire, path, domain, security);

PHP provides many ways to access cookies. Simplest way is to use either $_COOKIE or $HTTP_COOKIE_VARS



29.	How will you access session variables in PHP?
Session variables are stored in associative array called $_SESSION[]
This variables can be accessed during lifetime of a session

isset() function will check if session variable is already set or no

session_destroy() will destroy function



30.	How will you send an email using PHP?
mail( to, subject, message, headers, parameters);



31.	What is the purpose of $GLOBALS, $_SERVER, $_COOKIE, $_SESSION variables in PHP?

$GLOBALS contains a reference to every variable which is currently available within the local scope of the script.	
$_SERVER is an array containing information such as headers, paths and script locations. The entries in this array are created by the web server
$_COOKIE An associative array of variables passed to the current script via HTTP cookies
$_SESSION An associative array containing session variables avaialable to the current script



32.	What is the purpose of time(),  date() and getdate() functions?

time() gives all the information about the current date and time, it requires no arguments but returns an integer
getdate() optinally acceptsa time stamp and returns an associative array containing information about the date
date() function returns a formatted string representing a date



33.	How will you connect a MySql database using PHP?
connection mysql_connect(server, user, passwd, new_link, client_flag);



34.	How will you create a MySql database using PHP?
bool mysql_query(sql, connection);

bool mysql_close(resource $link_identifier); (to close a mysql database)



35.	How will you add a constructor function to a PHP class?
__construct() define a constructor. You can pass as many as arguments you like into the constructor function

__destruct() define a destructor.



36.	How will you access the reference to same object within the object in PHP?
The variable $this is a special variable and it refers to the same object 



37.	How will you create objects in PHP?
$physics = new Books;
$maths = new Books;
$chemistry = new Books;



38.	How will you call member functions of a class in PHP?
$physics->setTitle("Physics for high school");
$physics->setPrice(10);



39.	What is function overriding?
Function definitions in child classes override definition with the same name in parent classes.
In a child class, we can modify the definition of a funciton inherited from parent class.



40.	What are interfaces in PHP?
Interfaces are defined to provide a common function names to the implementors.
Different implementors can implement those interfaces according to their requirements.
Interfaces are skeltons which are implemented by developers.



41.	What is the use of final keyword?
final keyword prevents child classes from overriding a method by prefixing the definition with final



42.	How can we get the IP address of the client?
$_SERVER["REMOTE_ADDR"]; is the easiest solution



43.	What's the difference between unset() and unlink()?
unset() sets a variable to "undefined"
unlink() deletes a file we pass to it from the file system



44.	What are the main error types in PHP and how do they differ?
Notices: Simple, non-critical erros that are ocurred during the script execution.

Warnings: More important erros than Notices, however the script continue the execution (include() to a file that doesn't exist)

Fatal: Causes a termination of the script execution when occurs (accessing a property of a non-existent object)



45.	Difference between GET and POST?
- GET displays the submitted data as part of the URL, while POST doesn't show as it's encoded in the request
- GET can handle a maximum of 2048 characters, POST has no restrictions
- GET allows nly ASCII data, POST has no restrictions and includes binary data
- GET is used to retrieve data while POST to insert and update

Understanding the fundamentals of the HTTP protocol is very important for a PHP developer, and this differences are an essential part



46.	How can you enable error reporting in PHP?
init_set('display_errors');
error_reporting(E_ALL);

Enabling error messages is very important especially during the debugging process as indicates the exact line producing the error



47.	How can we get the number of elements in an array?
count() is used to return the number of elements in an array



48.	The value of the variable input is a string 1,2,3,4,5,6,7. How would you get the sum of all integers?
echo array_sum(explode(',',$input));

explode() is one of the most used functions in PHP, it explodes a string into an array



49.	What are the 3 scope levels available in PHP?
Private: Visible only in its own class
Public: Visible to any other code accessing the class
Protected: Visible only to classes parents and classes that extend the current class



50.	What are getter and setters and why are they important?
Getters and Setters are methods used to declare or obtain the values of variables, usually private ones



51.	What does MVC stand for and what does each component do?
MVC stands for Model View Controller.
The controller handles data passed to it by the view and also passes data to the view.
It's responsible for interpretation of the data sent by the view and dispersing the data to the appropiate models awaiting results to pass back to the view. If any business logic, should be occurring in the controller.

The model's job is to handle specific tasks related to a specific area of the application or functionality. Models will communicate directly with your database or other storage system and will handle business logic related to the results.

The view is passed data by the controller and is displayed to the user.



52.	What is Composer? What benefits have you found in it?
Composer is a tool for dependency management. THe candidate can declare the libraries your product relies on and Composer will manage the installation and updating of the libraries.



53. 	What is Jenkins?
Jenkins is a software that allows continuos integration. Jenkins will be installed on a server where the central build will take place. On Jenkins:
- Developers check their source code
- Kenkins will pick up the changed source code and trigger a build and run any tests if required
- The build output will be available in the Kenkins dashboards. Automatic notifications can also sent back to the developer



54.	What is Continuous Integration?
Is a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository.
This concept was meant to remove the problem of finding later occurrence of issues in the build lifecycle.
Continuous integration requires the developers to have frequent builds. The common practice is that whenever a code commit occurs, a build should be triggered



55.	How do you execute a PHP script from the command line?
php script.php
